# About Zone-Trader

Zone-Trader is an expert adviser (or trading robot) written for the MT4 or MT5 trading platforms. It's underlying approach is to identify zones of supply and demand across different time frames and represent these in a way that allows traders to quickly identify when to buy, when to sell and when to stay out of the market. 

Identified supply and demand zones can be manually filtered according to a large number of parameters associated with either the zone itself, or the time when price comes back to retest the zone. Parameters associated with the zone include values such as the depth of zone, penetration of the zone at the last retest, number of prior retests of the zone, or distance to the next opposing zone on the same time frame. In contrast, parameters associated with the time when price comes back to retest the zone include the hour of the day, the day of the week, position of price relative to a moving average, an RSI value, or the number of completed consolidation candles. All time based parameters are associated with a specific time frame. 

By selecting multiple criteria to filter zones, we can consider only those zones thought to be high probability trading opportunities. A simple example of applying criteria to filter zones is to include only those where trades taken on retests would be in line with the current trend as of the time of retest, which have a depth of less than 50 pips.

Understanding how each of these parameters impact the overall probability of a trading opportunity achieving its goal is the key to success with this approach. Therefore Zone=Trader provides back testing functionality that enables detailed analysis of supply and demand across different time frames and currencies with filtering criteria being applied in many different ways. Results can be seen on charts or extracted to files for more detailed analysis.

When an apparently successful configuration of parameters (strategy) has been designed for the given market conditions, the next step is to trade the strategy consistently. Of course, no one wants to sit in front of a screen for hours on end waiting for the exact set of conditions as back tested to occur. Murphy's law dictates that it will just at that time you are sleeping, or when you are away for a day that those conditions occur. This is why the expert adviser also provides an auto-trading capability. Using this, its a simple case of flipping a switch to tell it to start trading the strategy that you have just back tested. This is when you can leave it running whilst you enjoy the rest of your life and removing the temptation to interfere with trades and corrupt the strategy.
