# Supply And Demand

Supply and demand are the drivers behind all price movement for any stock, currency or commodity. To appreciate this, we need to remember that there must always be a buyer and a seller for every completed transaction. The buyer has a maximum price they will pay the seller, whilst the seller has a minimum price at which they will sell to the buyer. When we consider that the market is made up of a large number of buyers and sellers, all of whom have their own view of how much something is worth, there is nearly always going to be an imbalance of buyers and sellers at any given price point. This imbalance is what causes price to fluctuate between price levels.

In order to forecast price movements, we must compare the  quantity of buy or sell orders present at a given level with the willingness of market participants prepared to trade at those levels. The two elements that must be quantified are how many orders are remaining unfilled at level and how many new participants are entering the market to maintain the current trend.

For example, lets assume there is a pile of sell limit orders remaining at a previous high above current price. What the sellers need are buyers who are prepared to trade at that level. However, the buyers would actually prefer to trade at a lower price and its going to be their view on whether they can get a better price or not that will determine the action they take. If there is a lot of competition to buy (demand) then price is not going to reduce much. The most likely scenario is that the sell limit orders will be quickly filled by those trying to buy and price will then need to push higher to find more sellers. Conversely, if price is already at a new high and interest in buying is limited, the sellers may need to compromise and agree to trade at lower prices where they can find buyers prepared to enter the market.

Taking advantage of supply and demand requires an ability to quantify the number of limit orders at a level and the willingness of participants to fill those orders. Price candle charts can tell us where buy or sell orders existed at a level at a time in the past. For instance, if price was increasing, hit a level and then dropped, this tells us that there must have been an excess of sell orders at that peak level. Otherwise, price would not have reversed. Similarly, if price was decreasing, hit a level and then increased again, this tells us that there must have been an excess of buy orders at that low price level. Once we know this, our objective is to quantify the exact number of orders remaining at that level and compare this with an estimation of the willingness of participants to fill those orders.

In reality, it is predominantly the retail traders that fill the institutional orders. After all, most institutions would not be prepared to increase their risk by entering at the current market price. Therefore, the retail traders have to be lured into the market and encouraged to trade at the required levels. This can happen when the level coincides with trend line breaks, Fibonacci levels and other technical indicators. Or it may happen based on favorable news announcements or with rapid momentum moves in price suggesting to the naive that price will continue in the same direction

Whilst buy and sell limit orders create liquidity in the market, their presence does not directly impact the current price. This only occurs when a limit order is actually filled, typically by a market order. 

A market order is used by a participant who wants to trade at the best price available at that point in time. The best price depends on where limit orders are present in relation to the price showed at the time of entry (hence why limit orders provide liquidity). If the best price is some distance from the the currently displayed price, then slippage may occur. In particular, large slippage can occur if there is a lot of competition to fill only a few available limit orders.  

Once a limit order is filled, a new current price is set. This means the current price on a chart represents the last transacted price, not the current bid or offer. If a long bodied candle is seen on a standard candle chart, this means that price has moved a long distance in relatively little time. Therefore, it is unlikely that much trading could have occurred at prices contained within the candle body. 

When new buyers continue to enter the market, the price at which they are able to trade will move higher as the closest sell limit orders are absorbed. Eventually, the number of buyers prepared to trade at the higher prices diminishes and price starts moving up slower. The higher price goes, the lower the number of buyers that remain in the market and the less price will be able to move up. At the same time, as price increases, more sellers will be prepared to enter into transactions with those remaining buyers. 

At some point, the number of sellers will exceed the number of buyer and price will continue to fall again and the process starts over again. This explains why price generally follows a trend using a wave like motion.

Typically, limit orders accumulate at certain price levels where the party placing the order can easily quantify their risk. This is best done at previous turning points in price, with a stop placed beyond the most extreme price achieved before price turned. The assumption is that if price could not exceed a specific supply level, then at that point in time there must have been other sellers who were also looking to sell but did not get a chance before price reversed. The converse situation occurs at a demand level.
